---
title: A passing
layout: post
categories:
- Personal
---
It’s been too long since I’ve posted, but there is reason to the latency.

For those of you who read this blog and don’t already know, my stepdad John Weber passed away on Thursday, April 17th, 2003 around 1:00pm MDT. He had been in the hospital since the prior Thursday, and had been fighting lung cancer for a number of months prior. I recall that this last bout of cancer had resurged around Christmas of 2002. He was hospitalized at that time with pneumonia, which was also one of the things that was wrong with him at his passing.

At first, my grief was for my mom. He meant so much more to her than I ever could have imagined. It seems that her love for him parallels that I have for my wife, and that love is so much stronger than I can comprehend. The thought of her loss was so much to bear.

However, as I visited with her, I realized how much I truly cared for him. I mean, I cared for him, he was more like a father to me than my biological father was, but I never realized how much he truly, truly meant to me.

His brother was in town, and his sister got in just about an hour after his passing. We held a local service for friends and family on Saturday, and he will be buried in Onawa, Iowa this coming Saturday. My mom and I will be flying out to Iowa on Thursday, and returning on Sunday.

I briefly mentioned his sickness in another post, and I said at that time that I wasn’t comfortable discussing it at the time, simply because it seemed so certain that he wasn’t going to come out of the sickness, and I was right. Only now am I even close to comfortable posting, and I do so in part because it gives me a great level of comfort to express what I’m feeling.

A lot of people, at the time of a relative’s passing, tend to have one great regret regarding that person. I have two regarding my dad. My first regret is that I feel like I never took advantage of the great resource I had before me. I could have gotten to know him better than I did, and maybe spent more time with him before he got sick. My other regret is that I feel like I never got to express to him how much he meant to me. In some ways, I feel like I didn’t realize what I had until it was gone, something that seems to happen to all of us at some point.

If you’re the praying sort, keep me and my mom in your prayers. Heaven knows we could use all the support we could get right now.

My hope and prayer is that John knows how much he meant to both me and my mom, and how much he will be truly missed. I love you, John, and will never forget you.