---
title: SimCity 4
layout: post
categories:
- Personal
---
Oh my gosh – I’m just so in love. I have a feeling that my Gamecube is going to be lonely for quite awhile now.

I’ve always been a big SimCity buff. Back in the day, I played the first one on both an Apple IIe and eventually on my Super Nintendo. I had a PC of my very own when 2K came out, and I even got a special promotional version that included SC2K, the urban renewal kit (which included the ability to craft your own tile sets, very cool), and a bonus disk with a Will Wright interview and a dumpload of cities. SC3K came out right before my 19th birthday, and I played it quite a bit when it came out, even off and on right up until SC4 came out. In some ways, I wish we could import a 3K city in (you could upgrade your 2K to 3K cities), but after seeing all of the changes, I can understand why.

Expect this space to turn into a raving fanboy area regarding SC4 for awhile, with other occasional notes until I finally stop raving about the game. I don’t think that’ll be for quite awhile.

Oh yeah, I got the money for it on my birthday, February 1st. Happy Birthday to me! It doesn’t run incredibly fast or anything, but it runs a helluva lot better than I thought it was going to, based on [Tycho][1]‘s comments regarding his painful experience with New Funkytown. In fact, they did a nice little [strip][2] regarding SimCity 4, although you wouldn’t quite know it without looking at the news post (at least, I didn’t).

My first city, Bayside, isn’t doing so well. However, even after just about 40 minutes of play, I’ve realized that the balance issues that have been somewhat noticable in 2K and 3K have been resolved, or so it seems. I’ll save that for another discourse. To sum it up quickly, I’m amazed at the sheer granularity of the game. Budgets are split up by average income, schools can be fine-tuned individually – it’s just amazing.

Anyways, bedtime – good night.

 [1]: http://www.penny-arcade.com/news.php3?date=2003-01-21
 [2]: http://www.penny-arcade.com/view.php3?date=2003-01-20