---
title: Busy Days
layout: post
categories:
- Personal
  - Technical
---
The past few days have been just awesome. I’ve started my new job, and I’m doing web development for a living now. I have to say, it’s very exciting stuff. I’m doing things with HTML, CSS, and DOM that I didn’t know I could do. Heck, before today I only had a very vague idea of what DOM even was. It blows my mind, how all of it works. I used to look at HTML as a fairly flat system – it’s just markup, after all. But, combined with CSS for styling and DOM for behavior sorts of modification, it turns HTML into something much more vivid, much more active. I’m learning so much at work that it’s just mind blowing. I know I’ve said something like that already once in this paragraph, but it’s worth mentioning twice.

I’ve also discovered the joy of the [Safari][1] system. Sure, I have some of the books on CD anyways, but now I have access to all of that and a lot more, and for now, I even have it for free for a two-week trial. That’s not to say I don’t want to buy the books, as I do, but this is a great way for me to preview a book. Right now, five of the ten slots on my bookshelf are consumed. I’m thinking of maybe using a half-slot for the Regular Expressions pocket reference that is now up, although I’d really love to just find and purchase that. I had wanted a book on regular expressions, and the second edition of it was just amazing, but the pocket reference is really all I need at this point.

Tomorrow marks two years since the attacks. [Carlos][2] said he’s already working on a post regarding the attacks and his perspective on them, as he was the NOC supervisor working that day. I had to work the evening shift, and so I will probably write up what my experience that day was like, with a trackback to his post.

Also, my wife and her friends finally have [their own blog][3], but so far they’re not really posting a whole lot. I think they just don’t quite have a grip on it yet. My wife has posted her first post. Also, since she’s finally getting into blogging, I suppose I can use her name instead of saying “My wife” all the time. I’m excited to see what Lisa (that’d be my wife) and her sister and friends can come up with.

Here’s to hoping for regularity through the rest of the month.

 [1]: http://safari.oreilly.com
 [2]: http://www.retrospeck.net
 [3]: http://www.rioranchogirls.net