---
title: Skype vs. Gizmo Project
layout: post
categories:
- Personal
  - Technical
---
This post was initially a reply to a friend on their LiveJournal, but I put enough time into it, so I thought I’d make a full-out blog post out of it. Keep in mind that this is all personal observation and thoughts, so for the most part, your mileage may vary.

For those of you not in the know, there are now two programs out there that do free [P2P][1] [VoIP][2] – [Skype][3] has been around for quite awhile now, where [Gizmo Project][4] (which may get a new name soon) is a relative newcomer. Both offer similar paid services, such as the ability to call out to standard phone networks, or the ability to have your own custom inbound number. In fact, I used Skype rather extensively when Lisa was in Argentina as a means of talking to her. I’m sure we saved quite a bit in long distance bills by using Skype and getting her a SkypeIn phone number that was a local phone number for our land line, not to mention it made it a lot easier for the less tech-savvy family members to reach her.

My friend asked me if I knew how they compared, in terms of RAM utilization. Skype.exe is eating 22,784K according to Windows XP. Gizmo.exe is using 16,292K. Gizmo wins for size, at least initially.

As for other features, with Gizmo, there’s some unique things. For example, there doesn’t seem to be as easy a way to get multiple people into one call, but you’re also technically not capped by anything other than bandwidth. You pick and dial a random-ish conference call number, then distribute it to other people and have them connect. It seems a little goofy. I don’t know anyone else on Gizmo yet, so I’ve yet to see it in practice. If a bunch of you sign up for Gizmo, we might have to give it a shot. Although Gizmo’s conference call system seems a bit odd, it says that if you have people mute themselves when they’re not talking, you’ll have much greater success with large numbers of people. They say that they’ve had 28 people in 11 countries talking at once without much degradation of call quality. They say once you break past four people who aren’t muting, call quality slips a bit. Skype caps out at five people in a call, no matter what.

You also get the ability to have people call you directly from a land line for free, by using the SIP phone number that Gizmo provides. I can’t easily find this number in any member area of Gizmo, but you get it in the welcome email, so be sure to hang onto that when you sign up. So, for example, you can visit http://www.gizmoproject.com/access-numbers.html and pick an access number, dial it up, then press 1 for the SIPphone network, then punch in my SIP number (which I won’t post here, ask if you want to try it) and bam, that’s me, from a land line, without me having to put out any money at all. Of course, you as the caller have to pay whatever long distance charges may apply, but it works well, and when I tested it on myself, it was a near instant connection. It actually stunned me how fast it went from me punching in my SIP number on my handset to the call showing up on my screen.

I called myself to test it out. After getting that call and pushing it to voicemail (as I didn’t feel like talking to myself), Gizmo is up to 21,672K, which is higher than it was earier, but still lower than Skype at idle. Just for grins, I used my SkypeIn number that I signed up for and called myself in a similar such manner, and Skype went up to 30,513K, and when I hung up, it dropped to 29,536K. The Skype connection didn’t show up as fast as Gizmo did, but was still quick enough that had I answered it right away, the caller wouldn’t have waited for more than a ring or two. It makes me want to sign up for a Gizmo CallIn number, but there are none local to 505 yet. That’s one big win for Skype: The SkypeIn numbers seem to be much more extensive over the US, where Gizmo’s CallIn numbers are still only in large markets. I’m sure that Gizmo will expand, but for now, if that’s a big priority for you, then Skype is really your only choice unless you live in a large market. Free inbound calls rock, if you don’t mind only having access numbers in major cities and having people dial 20+ digits to reach you, but considering the ubiquity of free long distance on cell phones these days, long distance calls aren’t such an issue.

I should also note that voicemail is a paid service on Skype, but is free on Gizmo. However, each program handles voicemail rather differently. With Skype, you can either pay for voicemail as an independent service, or it comes free with a SkypeIn number. All voicemail information is managed in the client. You listen to and delete voicemails from within Skype. With Gizmo, each voicemail is sent as a .wav attachment to the email address that you provide. I gave it my gmail address (as I’m thinking of hopping ship to gmail for all of my email), so email size isn’t such a concern, but if you have a small inbox, this sort of system could be dangerous. Overall, the voicemail quality seemed better on Skype, but I’ve received a few there and only my one test on Gizmo, so it might not be that big of a difference. I didn’t do extensive testing on this aspect. I like managing voicemail through the program itself rather than email, but having it come in through email could be a real benefit in that you could listen to it from any PC, even if you can’t install the application, such as at a web cafe or something.

One odd thing I discovered, is that with your SIP phone number, you can go to http://www.sipphone.com/ and log in using your number and Gizmo password, and set up things like SMS notification of missed calls, which isn’t something Skype seems to offer yet. I don’t think I’d mess around much at SIPphone though, because I don’t know what sort of odd effects that’d have on Gizmo. It’s just neat to be able to turn on SMS notification, so I did, but I haven’t done any other account adjustments there. If I want to in the future, I think I’ll be doing it directly at GizmoProject.com.

As for client stability, Skype wins overall. Gizmo is still in beta, and it’s shown in one or two screens. I like the overall interface of Gizmo a bit more, but I did have one really weird issue where I had clicked on a small banner on one screen in Gizmo (not an ad, just a banner talking about something), and it linked me to another site, but when I came back, the dialog with the banner was stuck to my mouse, and I had to close that window using the keyboard, because when I moved my mouse, the dialog moved with it. It didn’t crash or anything, but there’s been one or two odd little things like that. They haven’t hampered usage, but it does show that it’s in beta still, whereas Skype is pretty much rock solid, and has been for months.

Since the initial question I was asked was about application memory usage, I’ve been staring at that during this whole testing phase. Overall, it seems like Gizmo is going to be lower in memory usage, usually by about 7-9MB. Even after a call, Gizmo was smaller in size than Skype at idle.

Also, I can’t seem to pick a truly personal avatar for Gizmo like I can with Skype. That stinks, but it’s not such a big deal.

My username is brianarn on both systems, if you want to do any testing or such things. If you want my SIP number, email me. Keep in mind that I may be at work, and so I might not talk much (if at all), but I’m sure we could say Hi or something.

Overall, I think I like Gizmo a bit more now. It uses less RAM, has more in the way of free features, and lets a ton more people than five get together at once. However, I know more people on Skype. I’ll stick to running both for now, but I’d recommend that people check out Gizmo and see what they think.

 [1]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer-to-peer
 [2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VoIP
 [3]: http://www.skype.com/
 [4]: http://www.gizmoproject.com/