---
title: Deaths
layout: post
categories:
- Personal
---
If I’ve seemed somewhat out of character or off recently, it’s because the past week or two has been really stressful.

You see, on July 17th, I got a call that my uncle in Iowa died. Larry Porter, 61, awesome guy who’d just recently quit smoking. Heart attack beat him down, he was in the hospital, on a respirator. They put in the order to have him pulled from it, and he was dead within ten minutes. When my stepdad died, he was really there for me. Larry was an awesome man. I took the following Monday off because I was just a wreck. I regret that I didn’t really get the chance to know him better while he was alive.

Ever since my stepdad died, I’ve been sensitive to deaths. The weekend before that, I got word that my grandpa on my dad’s side had died, and it caused a bit of an odd internal conflict in me. I felt really sad at the loss of my grandpa, but I hadn’t really spoken to anyone on that side of the family since my parents got divorced. That’s been eight years now, which is weird to think about. Eight years that I’ve not talked to a very large portion of people that I am related to by blood. None of them tried to contact me either, though. Apparently I went strictly with my mom in the divorce. I’ve seen my dad a few times since then, talked to him on the phone once in awhile, but not very much at all. My grandpa was an awesome guy. I had a phone number I could have called, to talk to my dad, but I felt very angry too, because he didn’t call me — his wife did, a woman that I’m not particularly fond of, and I am glad I didn’t have to talk to her directly (as my brother-in-law took the phone call). In retrospect, I regret calling, but I’ve since thrown away the phone number in frustration.

I was about to make a comment that he has my Yahoo email address, and could have written me at some point, but then I realized that I hadn’t checked it in awhile. In shock and amazement, I saw an email address in there — it was bearing his wife’s name, which didn’t bother me at first, because I know that they use that email address together, and he’s written me from it before, so I thought it might be him. However, it wasn’t. It was his wife, saying that she feels bad for my dad because we don’t really talk much these days. It makes me kind of angry that he can’t make the call himself. I know he’s got my phone number. He can pick up the phone.

I’ve been working on this entry for over a week now. I wanted to say something about my grandpa, but I felt very conflicted, then when Larry passed away, that really hit a raw nerve. Not really getting a chance to pay my respects in any way (as they’re in Iowa and I couldn’t really go) hurts. I know that flowers were sent, and that they bore both my mom’s and my name, but even so, I feel upset. I really hope that my aunt Vicki is doing okay.

In looking for my grandpa’s obituary, my mom stumbled upon an uncle’s obituary — my uncle Kenny had died back in September. As I said before, I’ve been out of touch with that side of the family for quite a few years now, but Kenny was my favorite uncle, so hearing about his death just added that much more frustration and sadness.

I’m going to use the cut to stash the obituaries. This way, I have a copy of them, but they’re not up and all over. Thanks for taking the time to read. I’ll return with happier posts soon, I promise.



[Larry Porter][1]:

> LARRY J. PORTER
> 
> DES MOINES
> 
> published on July 20, 2005
> 
> Larry J. Porter, 61, died Sunday, July 17, 2005 at Mercy Medical Center in Des Moines. Visitation services will be at Westover Funeral Home Friday, July 22 from 9 to 11 a.m. with memorial service to follow. Burial of the cremains will be Saturday, July 23 at 11 a.m. at Glendale Cemetery.
> 
> Larry was born November 20, 1943 in Winterset, Iowa, to James and Mary Anne Porter and graduated from Winterset High School in 1962. Larry worked for Massey Ferguson for 16 years and owned Porter Home Improvements. He was currently employed with ELM Utility Locators.
> 
> On September 20, 1980, Larry was united in marriage to Victoria Weber. Larry is survived by his wife, Victoria, his daughters and son-in-laws, Lori and Tony Carrara of Truro, Iowa and LeAnna and Sal Carreon of Des Moines, Iowa; grandchildren, Tia, Anthony and Andrew Carrara, and Brock DeVaughn and Salena Carreon; sister, Linda Sue Dillinger (Larry); and fraternal twin brother, David Porter (Martha); Brother-in-law, Tony Weber (Jackie) and many beloved nieces, nephews, cousins and friends. And beloved dog Queenie.
> 
> Memorials contributions may be directed to the Animal Rescue League. 

[Claude S. Arnold][2]:

> ARNOLD — Claude S. Arnold, 89, born in Petersburg, Indiana on February 27, 1916, a 2 year resident of Peralta, NM, formerly of Albuquerque passed away on Saturday, July 9, 2005. He moved his family to Albuquerque in 1946. He was a well known radiator repairman for many years, retiring in 1978. He enjoyed spending time with his family, especially his grandchildren. Claude was preceded in death by his father, Lawrence Arnold, his mother, Jeanette Gregory, one son, Kenneth Arnold, one grandson, Anthony Arnold and his six sisters. He is survived by his wife of 67 years, Nina Arnold; his daughter, Sharon Norris and husband, Jimmy; his sons, Roger Arnold and wife, Pat, Jerry Arnold and wife, Ruth and Clifford Arnold and wife, Tonya; 12 grandchildren; 16 great-grandchildren and one great-great-grandchild. Honoring his wishes he has been cremated and there will be no services at this time.

[Kenneth E. Arnold][3]:

> ARNOLD — Kenneth Eugene Arnold, born October 2, 1944 in Washington, IN, passed away on September 30, 2004. Kenneth moved to New Mexico with his family in 1946. Kenneth was preceded in death by his paternal grandparents, Lawrence Arnold and Jeanette Gregory; maternal grandparents, Rolla and Hazel Freeman; and nephew, Anthony Arnold. He is survived by his parents, Claude S. and Nina Arnold; daughters, Tracie and husband, Keith Clevenger , and Stephanie Miaris; sister, Sharon Norris and husband, Jimmy; brothers, Roger Arnold and wife, Pat, Jerry Arnold and wife, Ruth, and Clifford Arnold and wife, Tonya; and grandchildren, Jessica, Justin, Jeremy, Brittney, Alex and Caden. Kenneth worked for the Santa Fe Railroad for many years. Kenneth’s sense of humor will be greatly missed. He enjoyed playing guitar and spending time with his family, especially his grandchildren. Services are pending and will be announced. Direct Funeral Services, 2919 4th St NW, in charge of arrangements.

 [1]: http://www.desmoinesregister.com/apps/pbcs.dll/dclassifieds?Dato=20050720&Kategori=OBITUARIES01&Type=CAT1320&Lopenr=507000596
 [2]: http://obits.abqjournal.com/results?obit_id=69626
 [3]: http://obits.abqjournal.com/results?obit_id=61581